NACA TN 3044 
15 
Photographs taken of the flow patterns formed by the streamers from 
smoke grenades, spaced at 4-foot intervals, during a very rapid pitch 
change of approximately 2000 per second are presented in figure 4. 
Since 
the rotor blade did not photograph clearly, the approximate location of 
the rotor blade has been drawn in. 
The horizontal division line at the 
rotor-hub height that divides the light and dark areas is the horizon. 
The photographs show a large vortex, such as might be expected from the 
initial motion of an impervious disk, is quickly generated by the indi-
vidual blade-tip vortex filaments and is rapidly carried downstream as the 
wake velocity builds up to its normal value. 
The photographs indicate 
that the induced-velocity flow builds up first at the rotor tips and then 
proceeds inboard. 
The lag between the first indication of induced flow 
at the blade tips and at a position of about 0.25R was about 0.3 second 
or slightly greater than the time for one rotor revolution. 
This result 
is contrary to the assumption of uniform buildup along the radius on which 
the calculations are based. 
This inboard progression of the induced flow 
appears to be a secondary effect and does not appreciably affect the 
results as will be shown in the comparison of calculated and experimental 
values. 
The sa~e general pattern of the large vortex was noted for the 
slower rates of blade-pitch increase, except that it was not as pro-
nounced as that for the very rapid blade-pitch increases. 
Figure 5 shows the comparison of calculated and experimental ratios 
of maximum rotor thrust coefficient to final rotor thrust coefficient. 
Good agreement is obtained over the total range of rates of blade-pitch 
increase and magnitudes of blade-pitch change of 30 , 60 , 90 , and 120 , 
although, in general, the calculated thrust overshoots are about 10 per-
cent greater than those determined experimentally. 
SUMMARY OF RESULTS 
An experimental determination of the response of the thrust and 
induced velocity of a helicopter rotor to various rates of collective 
blade-pitch increase has been conducted on the Langley helicopter test 
tower. 
Experimental results are compared with calculations based on 
the concept of ~n "apparent additional massif of air influenced by the 
rotor disk. 
On the basis of this investigation, the following results 
were obtained: 
1. 
The time histories of the calculated and experimental thrust 
coefficients and induced-velocity buildup are in good agreement for 
