4 
a 
NACA TN 3044 
adjusted value to correlate simple blade-element-mamentum theory 
to strip analysis 
Dots over a symbol indicate derivatives with respect to time. 
APPARATUS AND TESTS 
The helicopter rotor used was a conventional three-blade rotor with 
flapping hinges located at the center of rotation and drag hinges offset 
about 9 inches from the center of rotation. 
The blade radius was 19 feet. 
The blades were plywood covered and untwisted and had NACA 23015 airfoil 
sections and the rotor solidity was 0.042. 
A plan-form view of one of 
the test rotor blades is shown in figure 1. 
Experimental data recorded for these tests were rotor angular 
velocity, rotor thrust, blade pitch angle, blade flapping angle, and the 
induced velocities in the wake beneath the rotor. 
A description of the 
test methods, except for the technique used in measuring the induced 
velocities, is given in reference 1. The induced velocities were meas-
ured with small calibrated windmill anemometers for the steady-state con-
ditions. For transient conditions, the wake velocities were obtained by 
measuring the drag of balsa-wood paddles (approximately 4 inches square) 
mounted on a horizontal bar about 2 feet below the rotor blades. 
The 
paddles were mounted on strain-gage beams and their response to a change 
in induced velocity was recorded by an oscillograph. 
The balsa-wood 
paddles gave almost instantaneous indications of flow changes, whereas 
the windmill anemometers had considerable lag in measuring transient air 
velocities. 
As an aid in visualizing the flow changes and in order to supplement 
the force and blade-motion data recorded by the oscillograph, smoke 
grenades were placed at 4-foot intervals on a boom about 4 feet above the 
rotor. All the release pins on the smoke grenades could be pulled simul-
taneously at the start of a test run. 
A high-speed 16-millimeter motion-
picture camera was used to photograph the smoke streamers during both 
steady-state and transient wake conditions. 
The slower rates of blade-pitch increase were accomplished by using 
electric-motor-driven actuators, whereas the very rapid rates were accom-
plished by using a spring and trigger mechanism on the pitch control. 
The 
rates of pitch increase that were obtained varied from 60 to 200 0 per 
second. 
The data presented are for the representative cases of blade-pitch 
change of 00 to 120 , except for a few tests in which the blade-pitch 
\ 
\ 
• 
• 
