14 
NACA TN 3044 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
A comparison of the time histories of the calculated and experi-
mental rotor response to pitch increases from 00 to 120 is shown in fig-
ure 3 for four rates of increase from 60 to 2000 per second. 
The curves 
in figure 3(a) indicate that the overshoot of the experimental rotor 
thrust coefficient for the rapid blade-pitch increase may be nearly twice 
the normal thrust coefficient. 
The magnitu(ie and overshoot of thrust 
coefficient is slightly less. than those calculated. 
The larger predicted 
value is probably due to the assumption that the rotor blades had infinite 
bending stiffness; this assumption results in larger inertia forces than 
for a practical blade. 
Comparison of the experimental and calculated 
flapping-angle displacem~nt indicates good agreement. 
The experimental 
blade-pitch changes exceeded, for a short duration, the 120 blade-pitch 
change on which the calculated values are based; however, other records 
~f 2000 to 4000 per second rapid biade-pitch changeswitho~t pitch over-
shoot indicated the same overshoot of the thrust coefficient. Rates of 
blade-pitch change as high as 4060 per second were obtained that had 
. almost the identical thrust-coefficient' variation with time as the some-
what slower rates of 1800 to 2000 per second. 
It can be seen from these results that the thrust-coefficient over-
shoot is of very short dUTation. 
The thrust-coefficient overshoot 
decreases about 80 percent in one rotor revolution. 
The time for the 
induced velocity to reach its full value is also very small and, for 
this rotor, less than 1 second for the very rapid rates of pitch increase. 
Figures 3(b), 3(c), and 3(d) show comparisons of calculated and 
experimental time histories for slower rates of blade-pitch increase 
of 480 to 60 per second. 
A comparison of the calculated and experimental 
curves shows good agreement for both flapping-angle displacements and 
thrust coefficients. 
In general, the curves indicate that the time lag 
between full pitch and full induced velocity is less than 1 second. For 
a pitch rate of 480 per second (fig. 3(b)), which is thought to be the 
maximum rate at which a pilot can move the controls (based on unpublished 
CAA and NACA tests), the time lag between full pitch and full induced 
velocity is approximately 0.7 second, whereas at still a slower rate of 
20 0 per second (fig. 3(c)), the time lag is about 0.4 second. 
For the 
most rapid rate of blade-pitch increase (fig. 3(a»), the blade inertia 
accounts for about 38 percent of the total maximum thrust and decreases 
to about 2 percent of the total maximum thrust for the slowest rate of 
blade-pitch increase (fig. 3(d»). 
The predicted thrust-coefficient overshoot for the slower rates of 
blade-pitch increase (60 to 480 per second) is generally about 10 per-
cent higher than the experimental values. This overestimate is probably 
due tc the simplifying assumptions ueed in the calculations; however, the 
method is sufficiently accurate for this study and, at the same time, 
greatly reduces the labor of calculations. 
